GSoC: Enhancing VScode Developer Experience (#269)
unikraft/docs: content/en/blog/2023-06-23-unikraft-gsoc-enhancing-vscode-developer-experience.md

Amongst other features, it allows developers to list and find unikernel libraries as well as run basic commands.
In this project, I will upgrade the VS Code extension to use [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit), the newly released CLI companion tool for Unikraft, written in Go.

### Summary of Objectives

This project aims to achieve the following outcomes:

* Modify the project's main binary, `kraft`, to enable JSON output of various commands, so that the integration with VS Code could be done through a machine-readable interface.
* Update VS Code IDE extension to function properly with new Go-based KraftKit.
* Additionally, enhance the experience, including adding support for other steps, in Unikraft's build cycle: package unikernels in different formats, provide linting.

## Current Progress

* Updated KraftKit to [provide output in configurable format](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/499) (JSON | YAML) for the commands `kraft pkg list` and `kraft ps`.
* [Updated VS Code IDE Extension's Unikraft-view](https://github.com/unikraft/ide-vscode/pull/7) to list available local components in the system and in the workspace `Kraftfile`.

## Next Steps

> * Create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in kraftkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in KraftKit.
```

>   This produces information about a component like happens in pykraft by the command `kraft list show`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This produces information about a component like happens in [`pykraft`](https://github.com/unikraft/pykraft) by the command `kraft list show`.
```

> * Make listing of versions possible when adding a new library/component using the IDE exntension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make listing of versions possible when adding a new library/component using the IDE extension.
```

+++

> title = "GSoC'23: Enhancing VScode Developer Experience"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title = "GSoC'23: Enhancing VS Code Developer Experience"
```

date = "2023-06-23T00:00:00+01:00"
author = "Md Sahil"

> tags = ["GSoC'23", "VsCode", "IDE Extension"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags = ["GSoC'23", "VS Code", "IDE Extension"]
```

+++

> <img width="100px" src="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/assets/media/gsoc-2022-badge.svg" align="right" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img width="100px" src="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/assets/media/gsoc-2023-badge.svg" align="right" />
```

> # GSoC'23: Enhancing VScode Developer Experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# GSoC'23: Enhancing VS Code Developer Experience
```

## Motivation

> The VsCode Extension for unikraft enables developers to quickly and painlessly build unikernels from the VsCode IDE.
> Amongst other features, It allows developers to list and find Unikernel libraries as well as run basic commands.
> In this project, I will upgrade the VSCode extension to use KraftKit, the newly released CLI
> companion tool for unikraft rewritten in GO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VS Code Extension for Unikraft enables developers to quickly and painlessly build unikernels from the VS Code IDE.
Amongst other features, it allows developers to list and find unikernel libraries as well as run basic commands.
In this project, I will upgrade the VS Code extension to use [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit), the newly released CLI companion tool for Unikraft, written in Go.
```

### Summary of Objectives

This project aims to achieve the following outcomes:

> - The project requires modifications to the project’s main binary, kraft, To enable JSON output of various commands so that the integration with
> VsCode could be done through a machine-readable interface.
> - And Updating VsCode IDE extension to function properly with new golang based Kraftkit.
> - Additionally, I will enhance the experience, including adding support for additional steps in Unikraft’s build cycle; Packaging unikernels in different formats; Providing a linting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modify the project's main binary, `kraft`, to enable JSON output of various commands, so that the integration with VS Code could be done through a machine-readable interface.
* Update VS Code IDE extension to function properly with new Go-based KraftKit.
* Additionally, enhance the experience, including adding support for other steps, in Unikraft's build cycle: package unikernels in different formats, provide linting.
```

## Current Progress

> - Updated kraftkit to [output in configurable format](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/499) (JSON | YAML) for the commands `kraft pkg list` and `kraft ps`.
> - [Updated Vscode IDE Extension's Unikraft-view](https://github.com/unikraft/ide-vscode/pull/7) to list available local components in the system and in the workspace's `Kraftfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated KraftKit to [provide output in configurable format](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/499) (JSON | YAML) for the commands `kraft pkg list` and `kraft ps`.
* [Updated VS Code IDE Extension's Unikraft-view](https://github.com/unikraft/ide-vscode/pull/7) to list available local components in the system and in the workspace `Kraftfile`.
```

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps
```

> - Create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in kraftkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in kraftkit.
```

>  This produces information about a component like happens in pykraft by the command `kraft list show`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This produces information about a component like happens in pykraft by the command `kraft list show`.
```
Add link to `pykraft`.

> - Make listing of versions possible when adding a new library/component using the IDE exntension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make listing of versions possible when adding a new library/component using the IDE exntension.
```

> - Enable the IDE to enable the initialization & others to work properly with kraftkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update the IDE to enable the initialization & other steps to work properly with KraftKit.
```

# GSoC'23: Enhancing VScode Developer Experience

## Motivation

The VsCode Extension for unikraft enables developers to quickly and painlessly build unikernels from the VsCode IDE.
Amongst other features, It allows developers to list and find Unikernel libraries as well as run basic commands.

In this project, I will upgrade the VSCode extension to use KraftKit, the newly released CLI
companion tool for unikraft rewritten in GO.

### Summary of Objectives

This project aims to achieve the following outcomes:

- The project requires modifications to the project’s main binary, kraft, To enable JSON output of various commands so that the integration with
VsCode could be done through a machine-readable interface.

- And Updating VsCode IDE extension to function properly with new golang based Kraftkit.

- Additionally, I will enhance the experience, including adding support for additional steps in Unikraft’s build cycle; Packaging unikernels in different formats; Providing a linting.

## Current Progress

- Updated kraftkit to [output in configurable format](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/499) (JSON | YAML) for the commands `kraft pkg list` and `kraft ps`.

> - [Updated VsCode IDE Extension's Unikraft-view](https://github.com/unikraft/ide-vscode/pull/7) to list available local components in the system and in the workspace's Kraftfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Updated VScode IDE Extension's Unikraft-view](https://github.com/unikraft/ide-vscode/pull/7) to list available local components in the system and in the workspace's Kraftfile.
```

Reviewer: Use `Kraftfile`, with backticks.

## Next steps

> - To create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in kraftkit to produce information about a component like happens in pykraft by the command `kraft list show`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a subcommand `show` for command `kraft pkg` in kraftkit.
  This produces information about a component like happens in pykraft by the command `kraft list show`.
```

Reviewer: I don't understand the complete sentence.

> - To make listing of versions possible via IDE Extension when to add a new library/component using IDE Exntension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make listing of versions possible when adding a new library/component using the IDE extension.
```

> - To enable IDE to execute Initialization operation & others to work properly with kraftkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable the IDE to enable the initialization operation & others to work properly with kraftkit.
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra white line.

## About Me

> I'm Md Sahil, A Third year Undergraduate Student of Computer Science Engineering as Maharshi Dayanand University.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm Md Sahil, A third year undergraduate student of Computer Science Engineering at Maharshi Dayanand University.
```

Reviewer: Link your name to your GitHub URL: https://github.com/MdSahil-oss

Also add a link to the university
